Referee Report
Reviewer's Comments:

This paper derives formalism for the occurrence rate density of exoplanets
detected by wide-field transit surveys, where unresolved binaries may bias
measured occurrence rates. The goal of the study is to provide clarity, and
quantify the impact of this bias for different parameter spaces and generative
models. The main result is that given various planet occurrence rate
distributions and a distribution for stellar binarity from the literature, the
bias is of the order of 5% for planet larger that 2 Earth radii, and for
smaller planets, the occurrence rate could be overestimated by as much as 50%.
The authors also show that when a binary is detected via high-resolution
follow-up, the planet is more likely to be orbiting the primary star. The
formalism presented in this paper provides much needed clarity and a foundation
for people to start including the impact of binarity into their occurrence rate
estimates. I recommend publication after the authors have addressed the
following points:

Section 2, end of paragraph 2, For each of the 4 points regarding missed
transit signals, how often do they occur? (could add references). 

Section 3.1, first sentence, "Since the effects of binarity are most pronounced
when the two stellar components are similar" <- please also point to the place
in the text where this is explained. 

Section 3.2, following equations 4, you may want to change "stars" to "host
star". 

Section 4.1, when exploring the Howard et al. planet radius distribution, how
sensitive are the results to the choice of gamma? Do mathematical artifacts
here make the results insensitive to the choice of the value of gamma? 

Section 4.4, end of paragraph 1, Add Lopez and Fortney citation. 

Section 4.4, paragraph 2, "radius distribution is assumed to have a complete
absence of planets with sizes between 1.5 and 2R_Earth", might clarify that the
"true" radius distribution is assumed to have this feature after fitting the
apparent distribution. 

Section 4.4, paragraph 2, More discussion of the spurious feature below 1.5
R_Earth would be helpful. 

Section 4.4, paragraph 2, "may be even more devoid of planets than it appears",
might want to emphasize again here that this conclusion is very dependent on
the true distribution model plugged into the formalism. 

Section 5, Hot Jupiter paragraph, states that result of this study find that
unresolved binaries likely result in an overestimated of hot-Jupiter occurrence
rates, implied by the Fulton gap model in Section 4.4. Previously, in section
4.2, paragraph 3, it states the occurrence rate density of planets greater than
8 Earth radii are underestimated. The abstract just says net systematic error
of order 5%. It would help to include a table describing the different tests in
this study, and how parameters are varied (how knobs are turned). 

Other: 

- Recommend using the term "uncertainty" instead of "errors" . 

- May want to comment on paper by Danley Hsu: Occurrence rates from Kepler
  using approximate Bayesian computation. You could speculate on what their
  data generating process would yield when plugged into this formalism. 

- May want to comment on the parameter space and telescopes for resolving
  binaries of various separations, etc. and the probability of being able to
  resolve binaries with followup. 

- May want to comment on parameterizing the occurrence rate in terms of planet
  radius and insolation flux. The semi major axis will depend on which star in
  the binary the planet orbits.
